EIPIP meeting 60 (#163)
ethereum-cat-herders/EIPIP: All EIPIP Meetings/Meeting 060.md

**Micah:** if that's possible then um someone can iterate on that if that's not possible then just keep in mind like i don't want to say um okay so so gavin says it is possible so whoever wants to take that i have no problem so if you you can even slow down i'm sorry it can even drop in a link to eip1 please read this is there not already one i think there's currently no template in um on the forum it's like when you go to new new forum topic it's just a blank slate so we are actually just suggesting go to fellowship of ethereum magician maybe we can update that link directly leading to the template where it suggests how to properly write it the first draft well that's good so 

> **Greg:** [we](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlKWquEmJms&t=2760) want a button that says new eip and it opens up the topic with some minimal instructions um and fill in the blanks and um the author can take it from there and this will encourage them to go read eip1 and use the template if they haven't already um i like that yeah i hope that that is going to be very helpful all right we have just 10 minutes left um i see a lot of issues there i mean like the topics to be covered let me try to bring some of them quickly number four from github issue um this is about um some conflict include a copy of rfc 822 and rfc2119 i have added the issue link here probably there are some discussion i guess initiated by panda paper i have no problem sorry i didn't catch which one the issue was oh is this including the rfcs well i obviously don't have any issue with it yeah that one so i'm in favor of adding two one one nine um i'm not sure if we're allowed to add the other one what is the other one then why would we not me is that a different licensing yeah so 2119 explicitly says distribution of this memo is unlimited which according to their faq means that you can just redistribute it however you want um whereas the other one i think was 822 or something like that doesn't include that note so they don't give legal guidance on whether they're allowed to we're allowed to redistribute it or not i interpret don't give leave bill guidance as do whatever you want but i don't know what the rest of you do no one tells me explicitly i can't do it i'm gonna do it also worst case they tell us take it down and we take it down very true yeah so i'm okay with approving that pr if no one else feels comfortable approving that pr um you know what so if someone created this pr i would have no problem approving it as long as no one rejected it if someone actually rejects it then i will respect that in further discussion uh do we put them in the assets directory for eip1 or do they go somewhere else so it's directory for you yeah one would be yeah perfect okay that's what i would do cool point number b here is for eip4907 that has inconsistencies which requires ip721 so here is the thing in the proposal 4907 um that has been moved to final it suggests that it requires eip721 as mandatory but the proposal has some inconsistencies with the required proposal seven to one i'm dropping the link to the proposal here does anyone know the technical history behind this so from what i gather uh the thing that's similar to the owner of in erp 721 uh in eip721 owner of if token id doesn't exist then it reverts but in the this eip4907 the equivalent for effective user uh does not actually refer it just returns the zero address instead and uh and basically it'd be nice if they both reverted uh sure but so so if there's a final yeah so if it's final and like like having final eips that suck is pretty normal um and we have pretty strict policy that you know if your specification is final you've not changed the specification like my general way to phrase this is if someone implemented the eap before the change it must still be completely compliant after the change like you cannot have any possible implementation that becomes non-compliant due to this change and if understanding correctly this change would make something that was previously compliant now non-compliant so therefore they need a new eip yeah i just suggest sticking a new eip with that change in perhaps it could i'd say it'd probably be had to be merged in this review i'm not sure if it'd be allowed to be merged in this last call that might be a bit too ambitious but i wouldn't be entirely opposed to that i generally prefer people go through the process draft review last call final though i also don't care how fast i go through that process the main reason is is uh i just having to go through those steps there are some people that only pay attention on certain steps and so you skip a step you skip a set of people to pay attention like for example for ercs i will glance once at an rc when it's in draft and i will glance once when it goes into the last call and i ignore everything else and so if you skip one or more steps then i will not see it and so i like to at least go through the process but again it can be quick like you can just do submit it as a draft get it merged immediately submit to review as soon as that's merged merge it immediately send it submit it as last call merge it um and then wait for two weeks and submit to final like i don't expect anyone to take a certain amount of time besides the last call step i would agree that is generally a good practice here to start from draft and move it fast if that proposal is in good shape and people are accepting it the way it is probably i can add that as a comment so if the user who has uh suggested this change or has pointed it out maybe want to create a new proposal uh point number c 4c here is reference implementation aren't linted prior checking when marked as final i see this is um by a user tim top and i have seen some comment left by panda pape um anyone would like to summarize or is there any final decision on this issue so i think it's still very much debatable i would say that they should be all cc0 unless there is a good reason for them not to be for example the rfc's obviously we can't stick it cc0 um but i'd also suggest maybe having to have editor approval to have something that is non ccri i see point number five which is also on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Greg:**  well that's good so  **[we](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlKWquEmJms&t=2803) want a button that says new eip and it opens up the topic with some minimal instructions um and fill in the blanks and um the author can take it from there** and this will encourage them to go read eip1 and use the template if they haven't already um i like that

 **Pooja**:  yeah i hope that that is going to be very helpful all right we have just 10 minutes left um i see a lot of issues there i mean like the topics to be covered let me try to bring some of them quickly 
 
 # 4.  From GitHub Issue
 ### a. Include a copy of RFC 822 and RFC 2119 in EIP-1's assets folder
 [number](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlKWquEmJms&t=2803s) four from github issue um this is about um some conflict include a copy of rfc 822 and rfc2119 i have added the issue link here probably there are some discussion i guess initiated by pandapip1  
 
**Micah**:  i have no problem 

**Gavin**: sorry i didn't catch which one the issue was oh is this including the rfcs well i obviously don't have any issue with it 

**Micah**: yeah that one

 **Sam**:  so i'm in favor of adding two one one nine um i'm not sure if we're allowed to add the other one 
 
 **Micah**: what is the other one then why would we not me is that a different licensing yeah so 2119 explicitly says distribution of this memo is unlimited which according to their faq means that you can just redistribute it however you want um whereas the other one i think was 822 or something like that doesn't include that note so they don't give legal guidance on whether they're allowed to we're allowed to redistribute it or not 
 
 **Micah**: i interpret don't give leave bill guidance as do whatever you want but i don't know what the rest of you do no one tells me explicitly i can't do it i'm gonna do it 
 
 **Gavin**: also worst case they tell us take it down and we take it down 
 
 **Sam**: very true yeah 
 
 **Micah**: so i'm okay with approving that pr if no one else feels comfortable approving that pr um you know what so if someone created this pr i would have no problem approving it as long as no one rejected it if someone actually rejects it then i will respect that in further discussion uh do we put them in the assets directory for eip1 or do they go somewhere else 
 **Gavin**: Assets directory for EIP-1.
 
  **Sam** yeah perfect okay 
  
  **Micah** that's what i would do 
  
  ### b. [EIP-4907](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4907) has inconsistencies with Requires (EIP-721), can it be updated?
 **Pooja** cool point number b here is for eip4907 that has inconsistencies which requires ip721 so here is the thing in the proposal 4907 um that has been moved to final it suggests that it requires eip721 as mandatory but the proposal has some inconsistencies with the required proposal 721. i'm dropping the link to the proposal here 
 
 **Micah**: does anyone know the technical history behind this 
 
 **Gavin**: so from what i gather uh the thing that's similar to the owner of in erp 721 uh in eip721 owner of if token id doesn't exist then it reverts but in the this eip4907 the equivalent for effective user uh does not actually refer it just returns the zero address instead and uh and basically it'd be nice if they both reverted 
 
 **Macah**: uh sure but so so if there's a final yeah so if it's final and like like having final eips that suck is pretty normal um and we have pretty strict policy that you know if your specification is final you've not changed the specification like my general way to phrase this is if someone implemented the eip before the change it must still be completely compliant after the change like you cannot have any possible implementation that becomes non-compliant due to this change and if understanding correctly this change would make something that was previously compliant now non-compliant so therefore they need a new eip 
 
 **Gavin** yeah i just suggest sticking a new eip with that change in perhaps it could i'd say it'd probably be had to be merged in this review i'm not sure if it'd be allowed to be merged in this last call that might be a bit too ambitious but i wouldn't be entirely opposed to that
 
**Micah**:  i generally prefer people go through the process draft review last call final though i also don't care how fast i go through that process the main reason is is uh i just having to go through those steps there are some people that only pay attention on certain steps and so you skip a step you skip a set of people to pay attention like for example for ercs i will glance once at an erc when it's in draft and i will glance once when it goes into the last call and i ignore everything else and so if you skip one or more steps then i will not see it and so i like to at least go through the process but again it can be quick like you can just do submit it as a draft get it merged immediately submit to review as soon as that's merged merge it immediately send it submit it as last call merge it um and then wait for two weeks and submit to final like i don't expect anyone to take a certain amount of time besides the last call step

 **Pooja**: i would agree that is generally a good practice here to start from draft and move it fast if that proposal is in good shape and people are accepting it the way it is probably **i can add that as a comment so if the user who has uh suggested this change or has pointed it out maybe want to create a new proposal** 
 
 ### c. Reference implementations aren't linted prior check-in or when marked as final
 **Pooja**: point number c 4c here is reference implementation aren't linted prior checking when marked as final i see this is um by a user tim  and i have seen some comment left by pandapip um anyone would like to summarize or is there any final decision on this issue 
 
 **Gavin**: so i think it's still very much debatable i would say that they should be all cc0 unless there is a good reason for them not to be for example the rfc's obviously we can't stick it cc0 um but i'd also suggest maybe having to have editor approval to have something that is non cc0.
```

> **Micah:** a similar note that is license for a reference implementation discussion so um on this 157 issue there's two separate things one is should we require everything to be a certain license or not and two should we lint people's code i'm pretty against linking people's code because i want authors to have autonomy to write their code how they want and if you want to do curly braces on next line with you know vertical alignment and using spaces then that's your choice and i don't want to try to enforce on anyone else any particular um this is mainly because i don't want editors to be taking philosophical positions on things at all possible so that's the one thing i'm fairly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Pooja:**  i see point number five which is also on a similar note that is license for a reference implementation discussion 

**Micah**: so um on this 157 issue there's two separate things one is should we require everything to be a certain license or not and two should we lint people's code i'm pretty against linking people's code because i want authors to have autonomy to write their code how they want and if you want to do curly braces on next line with you know vertical alignment and using spaces then that's your choice and i don't want to try to enforce on anyone else any particular um this is mainly because i don't want editors to be taking philosophical positions on things at all possible. 
```

> **Pooja:** against that one the licensing one is more separate more complicated we do need to resolve that because right now we don't have consistency and we should decide you know what licenses are people allowed to include as part of their eip i'm pretty strongly in favor of everything should be cc0 like the ipsc 0 and that means everything the eip you can't get out of this cc0 license by just moving all your content over to an asset file like i think that's not an appropriate way to bypass the cc0 licensing but i know not everybody agrees with me on this and so i do think we need more discussion yeah i think the other side of it is i think we should allow other licenses in the assets directory like cc0 isn't even an osi approved license so yeah it's because osi is dumb they have a pretty good reason for it i think um it explicitly does not grant patents where you know the unlicensed or some of the other cc0s licenses do yeah sure but neither does mit and i believe mit is no no exactly yes mit doesn't mention patents at all whereas cc0 explicitly does not grant patents and they were concerned about that why would we want people have patents over eips we don't know it means that you can get pen the fear is patent trolls so someone comes in licensed something with cc0 but it includes a patent infringing code and then someone else will then use that code because it stacy zero license and then the patent 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Micah:** so that's the one thing i'm fairly against that one the licensing one is more separate more complicated we do need to resolve that because right now we don't have consistency and we should decide you know what licenses are people allowed to include as part of their eip. i'm pretty strongly in favor of everything should be cc0 like the eip is cc0 and that means everything the eip you can't get out of this cc0 license by just moving all your content over to an asset file like i think that's not an appropriate way to bypass the cc0 licensing but i know not everybody agrees with me on this and so i do think **we need more discussion**.

 **Sam**: yeah i think the other side of it is i think we should allow other licenses in the assets directory like cc0 isn't even an osi approved license so 
 
 **Micah**: yeah it's because osi is dumb
 
**Sam**:  they have a pretty good reason for it i think um it explicitly does not grant patents where you know the unlicensed or some of the other cc0s licenses do 

**Micah**: yeah sure but neither does mit and i believe mit is 

**Sam**: no no exactly yes mit doesn't mention patents at all whereas cc0 explicitly does not grant patents and they were concerned about that 

**Gavin**: why would we want people have patents over eips 

**Sam**: we don't 

**Micah**: the fear is patent trolls. so someone comes in licensed something with cc0 but it includes a patent infringing code and then someone else will then use that code because it CC0 license 
```

> **Micah:** [troll](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlKWquEmJms&t=3360) will come show up and sue the person for using their patented stuff it's the most ridiculous thing ever and the fact that this is an issue in the world makes me want to fast forward my plans to murder all of humanity yeah so anyways like i just think we should allow other licenses in cc0 i'm totally fine with like the default being cc0 only and if somebody wants something else like somebody has i mean somebody has to prove it anyways but yeah can we can we have like cc people have like in in wikipedia the content licenses cc by shop and you can license it with other license so you people can cite your content with either one can we make cc buy as one required license and and then if they want to license it in any other ways they can declare that we also license it under other forms so if you know you if you worry about patents we happen to also license it with this this license so you can use it how's that i would be okay with that i don't think that addresses the problem that people have i think the problem people have is they want to include in their assets directory code that is already code that someone else wrote that they are copying as part of their eip usually it's open zeppelin so opens up i think license everything they do is mit um and so they want to copy that mit code drop it in the assets directory and then use it in their reference implementation but they can't re-license that as cc0 because they don't have the rights to do so this specific case i think it's impossible to avoid it that right people can always propose something and then put it there even though it can be put assumingly uh influencing other people's patent who don't necessarily are the authors right people can definitely lie and we just assume that everybody's telling the truth in this case because that gives us legal protection i think is the general idea like if uh if someone steals someone else's code what's in the github repository then a patent troll comes around generally the person who put it there is the person who's in trouble and if as long as they like if they claimed that this is non-patented but it was that's not true then they're the ones that are in trouble and so the ultimately like we just need them from a legal standpoint presumably we need them to make a declaration that this is x and that's enough whether that declaration is true or not doesn't actually matter we just need them to you know effectively claim make a claim somewhere and yeah i wonder if that is that that is achieved by a license or another the the the thing i'm concerned about is having people allowing people to use some license that's actually restricted of distribution of the content um yeah and that's why i prefer cc0 only um like i want everything like i want to say someone goes and reads an eip and that includes all aspects of the aap including the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Micah:**  and then the patent [troll](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlKWquEmJms&t=3360) will come show up and sue the person for using their patented stuff. it's the most ridiculous thing ever and the fact that this is an issue in the world makes me want to fast forward my plans to murder all of humanity 

**Sam**: yeah so anyways like i just think we should allow other licenses in cc0 i'm totally fine with like the default being cc0 only and if somebody wants something else like somebody has i mean somebody has to prove it anyways but yeah 

**Victor**: can we have like people have like in in wikipedia the content licenses cc by shop and you can license it with other license so you people can cite your content with either one can we make cc buy as one required license and and then if they want to license it in any other ways they can declare that we also license it under other forms so if you know you if you worry about patents we happen to also license it with this this license so you can use it how's that

 **Micah**:  i would be okay with that i don't think that addresses the problem that people have i think the problem people have is they want to include in their assets directory code that is already code that someone else wrote that they are copying as part of their eip usually it's open zeppelin so opens up i think license everything they do is mit um and so they want to copy that mit code drop it in the assets directory and then use it in their reference implementation but they can't re-license that as cc0 because they don't have the rights to do
 
  **Victor**:  so this specific case i think it's impossible to avoid it that right people can always propose something and then put it there even though it can be put assumingly uh influencing other people's patent who don't necessarily are the authors right 
  
  **Micah**: people can definitely lie and we just assume that everybody's telling the truth in this case because that gives us legal protection i think is the general idea like if uh if someone steals someone else's code what's in the github repository then a patent troll comes around generally the person who put it there is the person who's in trouble and if as long as they like if they claimed that this is non-patented but it was that's not true then they're the ones that are in trouble and so the ultimately like we just need them from a legal standpoint presumably we need them to make a declaration that this is x and that's enough whether that declaration is true or not doesn't actually matter we just need them to you know effectively claim make a claim somewhere and 
  
 **Victor**: yeah i wonder if that that is achieved by a license or another the thing i'm concerned about is having people allowing people to use some license that's actually restricted of distribution of the content um 
 
 **Micah**: yeah and that's why i prefer cc0 only um like i want everything like i want to say someone goes and reads an eip and that includes all aspects of the eip including the 
```

> **Greg:** specification section and the assets etc i want them to be comfortable that they can use that however they want like they don't need to worry the fact that cc0 doesn't give patent protection yes that's a concern and i mean we are not lawyers well maybe i am past life no i mean really you're entirely right greg like we only have like a very very surface level knowledge of any of this stuff so i mean so i spoke with lawyers in this and they also only have service level knowledge of this stuff i wouldn't give them too much credit um a big part of the problem is is most of these theoretical cases have never actually been tried in court and so everybody is guessing including the lawyers and the lawyers i guess you know with you know presumably history and background and knowledge of precedent and court cases and how courts have decided in the past but like there's no actual strong president that says most of this stuff the patent stuff i think actually has been tried in court and so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specification section and the assets etc i want them to be comfortable that they can use that however they want like they don't need to worry the fact that cc0 doesn't give patent protection yes that's a concern and i mean 

**Greg**: we are not lawyers

 **Micah**:  well maybe i am, in the past life; 
 
 **Greg**: no i mean really
 
  **Sam**:  you're entirely right greg like we only have like a very very surface level knowledge of any of this stuff 
  
**Micah**:   so i mean so i spoke with lawyers in this and they also only have service level knowledge of this stuff i wouldn't give them too much credit um a big part of the problem is is most of these theoretical cases have never actually been tried in court and so everybody is guessing including the lawyers and the lawyers i guess you know with you know presumably history and background and knowledge of precedent and court cases and how courts have decided in the past but like there's no actual strong president that says most of this stuff the patent stuff i think actually has been tried in court and so
```

> **Micah:** [that](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlKWquEmJms&t=6058)  is concerning i don't know if anyone's actually patent trolled cc0 before but people have patent trolled before like that is a thing that people have done i would just say i had thought we always did stick with cc0 so it's unfortunate if anything landed in assets otherwise and if it it can't be made cc0 then it should be linked to rather than copied assets um and then i don't i don't see the link out to something as anything like the same force as actual inclusion and but it would be good if that if the foundation wanted to hire a lawyer and if anything ever happened then you just point and say you know this this lawyer said it was okay we tried to do the right thing and that helps otherwise you know just pick a restrictive policy and be about it and quit worrying i'm afraid of being an so um if i have to maybe put it for the not writers do we have any consensus on this or we are still uh continuing discussion okay then probably i will add it to the next meeting and try to see what more for and against points do we have to consider yeah think there's one thing we can do let's split that uh issue or suggest to tim to split that issue into two so one is the licensing issue and that is the entire discussion separately is should we lent people's code and i think those two can be handled in isolation for each other and they may have very different resolutions is it something that is recommended to be done on uh ef devops channel or do you want it to be there on either side he has uh so right now he has on ethereum cat herders eipip he has an issue number 157 is linked from the agenda apparently that has two bullet points i think this should actually be split into two separate issues the discussions can remain separate 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[that](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlKWquEmJms&t=6058)  is concerning i don't know if anyone's actually patent trolled cc0 before but people have patent trolled before like that is a thing that people have done 

**Greg**: i would just say i had thought we always did stick with cc0 so it's unfortunate if anything landed in assets otherwise and if it it can't be made cc0 then it should be linked to rather than copied assets um and then i don't i don't see the link out to something as anything like the same force as actual inclusion and but it would be good if that if the foundation wanted to hire a lawyer and if anything ever happened then you just point and say you know this this lawyer said it was okay we tried to do the right thing and that helps otherwise you know just pick a restrictive policy and be about it and quit worrying

 **Micah**: I am not a fan of being an a** 
 
 **Pooja**: so um if i have to maybe put it for the not writers do we have any consensus on this or we are still continuing discussion
 
  **Micah**: No
  
 **Pooja**: okay then probably i will **add it to the next meeting** and try to see what more for and against points do we have to consider yeah think there's one thing we can do let's split that uh issue or **suggest to tim to split that issue into two so one is the licensing issue and that is the entire discussion separately is should we lint people's code and i think those two can be handled in isolation for each other and they may have very different resolutions**
 
**Pooja**:  is it something that is recommended to be done on uh ef devops channel or do you want it to be there on either side he has uh so 

**micah**: right now he has on ethereum cat herders eipip he has an issue number 157 is linked from the agenda apparently that has two bullet points i think this should actually be split into two separate issues the discussions can remain separate 
```

> **Pooja:** [i'm](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlKWquEmJms&t=6196) sorry for a moment i forgot that we are talking about the other team i was thinking that you are talking to timbeku my bad anyway okay fine uh definitely i'm gonna add this uh as what we have uh taken out from this meeting and if we have two separate issues we can continue discussing on that well we are past six minutes from the meeting and uh there were many other points that we wanted to discuss i hope to bring them up in the next meeting thank you all for joining us today and um yeah i hope to see you in two weeks but if there are something that we need to be addressing it on higher priority we can probably bring into eip cat hurdles so eib editors channel and we can see if we come to a faster solution over there thanks again see you all in two weeks have a good one everyone see you too 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Pooja:** [i'm](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlKWquEmJms&t=3807) sorry for a moment i forgot that we are talking about the other team i was thinking that you are talking to timbeiko my bad anyway okay fine uh definitely i'm gonna add this uh as what we have uh taken out from this meeting and if we have two separate issues we can continue discussing on that 
well we are past six minutes from the meeting and uh t**here were many other points that we wanted to discuss i hope to bring them up in the next meeting** thank you all for joining us today and um yeah i hope to see you in two weeks but if there are something that we need to be addressing it on higher priority we can probably bring into Discord cat herders EIP editors channel and we can see if we come to a faster solution over there.
 thanks again see you all in two weeks have a good one everyone. see you too! 
```

# Attendees
* Pooja
* Zanan
* Greg
* Anett
* Micah
* Sam
* Lightclient

> * Tim

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tim

* Gavin
```
